README.md, before:

# Mik Bot

A modular framework for building Discord bots in [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org)
using [Kordex](https://github.com/Kord-Extensions/kord-extensions/) and [Kord](https://github.com/kordlib)

**If you are here for mikmusic, click [here](music) and [there](mikmusic-bot)

# Help translating this project
<a href="https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/mikbot/">
<img src="https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/mikbot/-/287x66-grey.png" alt="Übersetzungsstatus" />
</a>

## Deployment

### Requirements

- [Sentry](https://sentry.io) (Optional)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Example Environment file

<details>
<summary>.env</summary>

```properties
ENVIRONMENT=PRODUCTION
SENTRY_TOKEN=<>
DISCORD_TOKEN=<>
MONGO_URL=mongodb://bot:bot@mongo
MONGO_DATABASE=bot_prod
LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
BOT_OWNERS=416902379598774273
OWNER_GUILD=<>
```

</details>

### Starting the bot

Docker image from: https://github.com/DRSchlaubi/mikmusic/pkgs/container/mikmusic%2Fbot

- Clone this repo
- Run `docker-compose up -d`

# For developers

JDK is required it can be obtained [here](https://adoptium.net) (Recommended for Windows but works everywhere)
and [here](https://sdkman.io/) (Recommended for Linux/Mac)

Please set the `ENVIRONMENT` env var to `DEVELOPMENT` whilst developing the bot.
Also set a `TEST_GUILD` environment variable, for local commands

If you are making any changes to the bots official plugins (aka the plugins in this repo),
please run the `rebuild-plugin-dependency-list.sh` script first, otherwise your plugins won't be loaded properly

Commit message:

bot: Add ability to disable plugin updates

README.md, after:

# Mik Bot

A modular framework for building Discord bots in [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org)
using [Kordex](https://github.com/Kord-Extensions/kord-extensions/) and [Kord](https://github.com/kordlib)

**If you are here for mikmusic, click [here](music) and [there](mikmusic-bot)

# Help translating this project
<a href="https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/mikbot/">
<img src="https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/mikbot/-/287x66-grey.png" alt="Übersetzungsstatus" />
</a>

## Deployment

### Requirements

- [Sentry](https://sentry.io) (Optional)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

## Example Environment file

<details>
<summary>.env</summary>

```properties
ENVIRONMENT=PRODUCTION
SENTRY_TOKEN=<>
DISCORD_TOKEN=<>
MONGO_URL=mongodb://bot:bot@mongo
MONGO_DATABASE=bot_prod
LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
BOT_OWNERS=416902379598774273
OWNER_GUILD=<>
UPDATE_PLUGINS=false #if you want to disable the auto updater
```

</details>

### Starting the bot

Docker image from: https://github.com/DRSchlaubi/mikmusic/pkgs/container/mikmusic%2Fbot

- Clone this repo
- Run `docker-compose up -d`

# For developers

JDK is required it can be obtained [here](https://adoptium.net) (Recommended for Windows but works everywhere)
and [here](https://sdkman.io/) (Recommended for Linux/Mac)

Please set the `ENVIRONMENT` env var to `DEVELOPMENT` whilst developing the bot.
Also set a `TEST_GUILD` environment variable, for local commands

If you are making any changes to the bots official plugins (aka the plugins in this repo),
please run the `rebuild-plugin-dependency-list.sh` script first, otherwise your plugins won't be loaded properly
